And this video we'll cover
test-driven development.
Now with traditional development we have the basic process.
We design our application first,
then we'd write the code for our app,
and then finally, we would test the application
at the end.
And I kind of chuckle here,
the testing part doesn't always happen, right?
You may only test as needed.
But with test-driven development,
we kind of flip it on this head,
we kind of flip the script here.
And so we actually start with testing.
So up top with test-driven development
we start by writing a failing test.
So the test is broken, it fails,
and then we'll actually write code to make the test pass.
All right, so start with the failing test
and then we write code to make the test pass.
And then we can actually refactor our code
and kind of improve on the design,
do some fine tweaking and so forth,
and that's the idea.
And then this is a continuous loop.
So now for the next item here,
we actually go back and with test,
we simply repeat the process.
So we write another failing test
and we code, refactor and so on.
So that's our continuous rhythm here
as far as making use of test-driven development.
And the key again, starting with a failing test first.
Now you may wonder,
well, what are the benefits of test-driven development?
Well, it gives you a clear task list of things
that you need to test and develop.
So it's kind of like your to-do list.
And also these tests will help you identify edge cases
and tests for them.
You can also develop your code in small increments.
And then also passing tests increases confidence
in your code.
And also as you're kind of working through this task list
or test list, you're like, okay, great,
I've actually accomplished some work here.
I can see code passing.
I see these green check marks
and just kind of makes you feel better
about your actual development process.
And then also the really nice thing
about test-driven development is that,
it gives you freedom to refactor,
the tests are your safety net.
Sometimes when you go and modify your code in the pass,
you'd say, hey, I changed this, but did I break anything?
Well, you can simply run your suite of test again,
and if all your tests pass then,
you have a high level of confidence that, hey,
the code that you changed didn't break anything.
Assuming that the section of code
that you changed have test in place for it.
So again, make some changes, run your test again,
if you get all green on the test, then you have a high level
of confidence here that everything is okay.
All right, so let's look at our project.
We'll actually apply what we've learned
so far for a TDD project, and we'll use the FizzBuzz project
as an example.
What is FizzBuzz?
Well, FizzBuzz is a coding problem
that's used in some technical interviews.
And here's the basic problem.
They'll say, hey, write a program
to print the first 100 FizzBuzz numbers.
Start at one and end at 100.
So if a number is divisible by three, then we'll print Fizz.
If the number is divisible by five, we'll print Buzz.
If the number is divisible by three and five,
we'll print FizzBuzz.
And finally, if the number is not divisible by three or five
then you simply print the number.
Now let's take these rules or specs here
and look at some sample outputs.
So the specs on the left,
here's some sample output on the right.
So for the number one, we'll print one
because it's not divisible by three or five.
For the number two, we'll simply print two,
again, not divisible by three or five.
For the number three we'll print Fizz
because that number's divisible by three.
For the number four, not divisible by three or five,
simply print the number.
For five, we'll print Buzz
because that number's divisible by five.
For six we'll print Fizz,
because that number's divisible by three.
Seven, not divisible by three or five
so we simply print the number and so on.
So you kind of get the idea as far as how to get
the FizzBuzz numbers.
And again, you simply apply those specs
or apply those rules to find out how to get
the appropriate number here for FizzBuzz.
Now, this as FizzBuzz example, it kind of went viral,
kind of took off.
There's a lot of documentation
and discussion about it on the web,
so there's FizzBuzz Wiki at the link I have here
on the slide.
It has solutions in various programming languages
like Python, Go, R, Java, C-Sharp and so on.
You can see some basic solutions.
You can also find some advanced solutions.
So people took this example and said,
hey, I can solve FizzBuzz in five lines,
or, hey, I can write some Python code
and solve it in three lines,
or, I can write this bash script
and solve it in one line of code.
So, folks really had a lot of, (chuckles) extra time
in their hands or free time in their hands
and it turned into like a coding challenge.
So definitely check that link there for some
of those different solutions out there.
And then if the Wiki is not enough,
well, there's actually a FizzBuzz book.
Yes, someone actually wrote a book on FizzBuzz.
So there's a number of chapters that discuss
all the different solutions that are available,
the different approaches, algorithms, and so on.
So if you'd like to take a look at that,
you can look at fizzbuzzbook.com.
Fun stuff, fun stuff.
All right.
So let's look at applying TDD for our project here.
So our development process,
we'll first write a failing test,
and then we'll write code to make the test pass,
we'll also refactor the code as needed,
and then we'll repeat the process
as we go through this given project.
Okay, this looks really good.
I'm excited, let's go ahead and dive
into the next video and let's start adding some code.